## Quantum Computing Linear Algebra Sandbox Engine R.
# QC - LASER 
"The R stands for **Remarkable** Edition and definitely not as filler to make the acronym work because 'LASE just doesn't sound as good'." - Stephen Matthews 2026

---
#### Made with Dear ImGui v1.92.8 by OCornut and contributors. 
Implementations of Linear Algebra concepts relevant to Quantum Computing made into a sandbox engine for testing and learning purposes. Have a hands-on experience with the mathematical foundations of quantum computing. Go explore and manipulate linear algebra objects and operations in a sandbox environment.

## Production environment
A `CMakeLists.txt` file is provided in the root directory. There are two build versions available, `debug` and `release` versions. Configure the project with CMake by running the command:
```bash
cmake -S . -B build_Debug -G "Ninja" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cmake -S . -B build_Release -G "Ninja" -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```
Production material will be generated by CMake in the `build_${buildType}` directories and its contents may differ by your personal dev environment.  

To build the executable use the following command:
```bash
cmake --build build_Debug
cmake --build build_Release
```

## How to Run
The executable will be created in the `build_${buildType}` folder. To run the executable, use the command from root directory:
```bash
./build_Debug/QC-LASER-Portable-Distribution/QC_LASER.exe
./build_Release/QC-LASER-Portable-Distribution/QC_LASER.exe
```
or run the executable directly from your IDE or use the `Compile n Run C++` task.

## tasks.json
this repository contains a `.vscode` directory to help you set up build and run tasks if you are using VSCode as your IDE. You can find the `tasks.json` file in the `.vscode` directory. The tasks are already set up to compile and run the project using the commands mentioned above.  
> a task named `Compile C++` to automate compiling the project.with one press of a button.

> a task named `Compile n Run C++` can be set to a keybind as well to automate running the project for quick tests.

> Both task names can be set to a keybind in your `keybindings.json` settings.
---

## Development environment
`CMakeLists.txt` file will handle finding and linking required libraries automatically. This project is made with the following software:
```markdown
- boost
- OpenGL3 
- glfw
- HDF5 and its dependencies ...
``` 
You need to install said packages for your dev environment. Toolchains for this project is managed with `MSYS2` and its `pacman`, made with the `UCRT64` toolchain. `cmake` and `ninja` is used for managing compiling and build. You can install the required packages by running the following command in your MSYS2 UCRT64 terminal:
```bash
pacman -S mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-toolchain \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-cmake \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-ninja \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-boost \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-glfw \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-hdf5 \
 mingw-w64-ucrt-x86_64-pkgconf
```